docs: update networking page (#6289)
ChainSafe/lodestar: docs/pages/beacon-management/networking.md

# Networking

> Lodestar will automatically start connecting to peers on startup. Those peers are found through the discv5 protocol and once peers are established communications happen via gossipsub over libp2p. While not necessary, having a basic understanding of how the various protocols and transports work will help with debugging and troubleshooting as some of the more common challenges come up with [firewalls](#firewall-management) and [NAT traversal](#nat-traversal).

Reviewer: How do you feel about this change that removes the start/startup right next to each other. Flows a bit better.

I don't think we need to add "Those" to specify "which" peers when the sentence before narrows the peers that are being referred to but they are not spoken about specifically, but rather generally.  This is more of a writing style thing though and up to you if you prefer it.

```suggestion
Lodestar will automatically connect to peers on startup. Peers are found through the discv5 protocol and once peers are established communications happen via gossipsub over libp2p. While not necessary, having a basic understanding of how the various protocols and transports work will help with debugging and troubleshooting as some of the more common challenges come up with [firewalls](#firewall-management) and [NAT traversal](#nat-traversal).
```

Author: sounds good 👍

Note that bootnodes are announced via ENR.

Lodestar prints out its own ENR on startup, or it can alternatively be retrieved from the beacon node API by querying the [getNetworkIdentity](https://ethereum.github.io/beacon-APIs/#/Node/getNetworkIdentity) endpoint.

> 

Reviewer: How do you feel about adding an output sample here?  Or is that too much? 

suggestion: (not displaying the nested code block with github suggestion)

====================

The logs will show something similar to the following
```sh
info: discv5 worker started peerId=16Uiu.....t9LQ3, initialENR=enr:-Iu4QGE.........WRwgiMo, bindAddr4=/ip4/0.0.0.0/udp/9000

```
====================

Author: ~~Was thinking about that too but I didn't want to include too many technical details here. So far people were able to spot it in the logs, there are not that many unless you have debug enabled~~

added log example

If your setup is behind a firewall there are a few ports that will need to be opened to allow for P2P discovery and communication. There are also some ports that need to be protected to prevent unwanted access or DDOS attacks on your node.

Ports that should be opened:
Ports that must be opened:

- 30303/TCP+UDP - Execution layer p2p communication port
- 9000/TCP+UDP - Beacon Node P2P communication port
- 9090/TCP - Lodestar IPv6 P2P communication port
- 13000/TCP - Prysm P2P communication port

> - 12000/UDP - Prysm P2P communication port

Reviewer: These should not be removed or lodestar will have issue p2p communicating with Prysm.  I get that these are Lodestar docs but we communicate with Prysm

https://docs.prylabs.network/docs/prysm-usage/p2p-host-ip#configure-your-firewall

Reviewer: Perhaps they go in an "optional" section with a note so people know the issue exists.

Author: > lodestar will have issue p2p communicating with Prysm

This only concerns _inbound_ ports, not _outbound_. I already mentioned that in the PR description, if you start speculating on what ports other nodes in the network are running on, you are fighting a losing battle.

Just an example, on dappnode [Lodestar p2p port is configured to use 9512](https://github.com/dappnode/DAppNodePackage-Lodestar-Prater/blob/3490e356b2a041355a8e7d50ae7e01bf436108f4/docker-compose.yml#L21), same goes for other clients, they don't use default ports.

Maybe we should highlight that it is important to not block **any** outbound ports, but I felt like this is unnecessary as nobody does this.

Reviewer: OK makes sense.  Maybe we can add a note in another PR that these are the defaults and that there are some extenuating circumstances that do not fall under these rules

Author: Noticed in the prysm docs you linked above that they state to allow outbound traffic from any port
![image](https://github.com/ChainSafe/lodestar/assets/38436224/08102a6d-f232-41bb-8646-8ef14d028d18)
This might be something to consider but from my experience this is not an issue as there is no guide that I know that instructions users to block outbound traffic.

- 9596/TCP - Beacon node REST API port
- 5062/TCP - Validator key manager API port

> - 18550/TCP - MEV-boost/Builder port

Reviewer: Title case should be used here in hyphenation if the first word is capitalized
```suggestion
- 18550/TCP - MEV-Boost/Builder port
```
